# Spring Bean

According to the official documentation in spring.io,

> *In Spring, the objects that form the backbone of your application and that are managed by the Spring IoC container are called beans. A bean is an object that is instantiated, assembled, and managed by a **Spring IoC container**. Otherwise, a bean is simply one of many objects in your application. Beans, and the dependencies among them, are reflected in the configuration metadata used by a container.*

A **_Spring bean_** is an instance of a Java class which is created and managed by a Spring container. Once a Java class is marked as a Spring bean, the container takes over the following operations:  
1. Loading the class. 
2. Creating an object of the class.  
3. Managing the object.  
4. Destroying the object when no longer needed.

## Bean Scopes

The Spring Framework supports the following five scopes, where the last three of which are available only if you use a web-aware ApplicationContext.

1. **SINGLETON :** 
	- This scopes the bean definition to a single instance per Spring IoC container. This is the default scope of all the beans.
2. **PROTOTYPE :** 
	- This scopes a single bean definition to have any number of object instances.
3. **REQUEST :** 
	- This scopes a bean definition to an HTTP request. Only valid in the context of a web-aware Spring ApplicationContext.
4. **SESSION :** 
	- This scopes a bean definition to an HTTP session. Only valid in the context of a web-aware Spring ApplicationContext.
5. **GLOBAL-SESSION :** 
	- This scopes a bean definition to a global HTTP session. Only valid in the context of a web-aware Spring ApplicationContext.

## Bean Life Cycle

The bean life cycle refers to when & how the bean is instantiated, what action it performs until it lives, and when & how it is destroyed.

**Bean life cycle is managed by the _Spring container_.** 
1. When we run the program then, first of all, the spring container gets started.
2. The Spring container creates an instance of the bean. This typically involves using the bean's no-argument constructor.
3. Spring injects any dependencies the bean has into its properties. This is achieved through Dependency Injection.
4. The bean is now ready and can be used by your application.
5. Ultimately, the bean is destroyed with the closure of the spring container.

Consequently, we may write code inside the custom `init()` and `destroy()` methods if we wish to run it during bean creation and immediately after shutting down the spring container. This can be done in three ways, they are:

1. **XML Config:** By using`init-method="methodName" destroy-method="methodName"` properties of bean tag.
2. **Java Config:** By implementing `InitializingBean`, `DisposableBean` and overriding `afterPropertiesSet()` and `destroy()` methods.
3. **Annotation Config:** By annotating the methods with `@PostConstruct` and `@PreDestroy`