==Before talking about Hibernate, we need first to understand the **JPA**. **JPA** or **Java Persistence API** is a standard for mapping Java objects to relational databases, where each Java class is represented as a table in the database (and multiple instances of a object represents multiple rows of the table)== 

Whereas we have some problems here because **JPA** is just a specification, meaning it only provides interfaces to interact with databases and does not have any implementation. We can add all the **JPA annotations** in our code to integrate with the database, but without an implementation, nothing will actually happen. Therefore, to work with JPA, we need an implementation, and **Hibernate** provides that implementation.

## What is Hibernate ?

**Hibernate** is an open-source ORM (Object-Relational Mapping) framework used to integrate Java applications with relational databases. In Hibernate, each Java class (entity) is represented as a table in the database, and multiple instances of a class represent multiple rows in that table. Compared to traditional frameworks such as JDBC, Hibernate provides several advanced features, including DDL operations, HQL Queries, Automatic key generation, cache support, and lazy initialization. 

### Functionalities Supported By Hibernate

1. **Auto DDL :** Hibernate framework support Auto DDL operations. In JDBC manually we have to create table and declare the datatype for each and every column. But hibernate can do DDL operations for you internally like creation of table, drop a table, alter a table etc.
2. **HQL Language :** Hibernate internally uses HQL (Hibernate Query Language) which is object-oriented version of SQL. It generates the database independent queries. So, you don't need to write database specific queries. Before Hibernate, if database is changed for the project, we need to change the SQL query as well that leads to the maintenance problem.
3. **Auto Primary Key Generation :** Hibernate supports Auto Primary key generation. It means in JDBC we have to manually set a primary key for a table. But hibernate can this task for you.
4. **Cache Support :** Hibernate supports Cache Memory whereas JDBC does not support cache memory.
5. **Lazy Initialization :** Hibernate support lazy initialization using proxy objects.


**Additional Resources:**

- **Official Hibernate Documentation:** [https://docs.jboss.org/hibernate/stable/orm/userguide/html_single/Hibernate_User_](https://docs.jboss.org/hibernate/stable/orm/userguide/html_single/Hibernate_User_Guide.html)