# Hibernate Life Cycle

The Hibernate life cycle consists of four main states: _Transient, Persistent, Detached_, and _Removed_. Each of these states represents a specific state of an object in the Hibernate framework.
1. Transient State
2. Persistence State
3. Detached State
4. Removed State
## 1. Transient State
When an object is created using the "`new`" keyword, it is in the transient state. The object is not associated with any Hibernate session, and no database operations are performed on it. The object is simply a Plain Old Java Object (POJO) that is not yet persisted in the database.

###### Code Example

```
// Creating a new object in the transient state
Employee employee = new Employee();
employee.setName(“John”);
employee.setAge(30);
```

## 2. Persistence State

When an object is associated with a Hibernate session, it enters the persistent state. In this state, the object is associated with a specific Hibernate session and is actively managed by Hibernate. Any changes made to the object will be tracked by Hibernate and will be persisted to the database when the session is flushed.
## 3. Detached State

When a persistent object is no longer associated with a Hibernate session, it enters the detached state. This means that the object is no longer actively managed by Hibernate, and any changes made to it will not be persisted to the database. However, the object is still a valid Java object and can be re-associated with a Hibernate session in the future.

###### Code Example

```
//Loading an existing object into a Hibernate session
Session session = HibernateUtil.getSessionFactory().openSession();
Employee employee = session.get(Employee.class, 1L);

//Detaching the object from the Hibernate session
session.evict(employee);

//Modifying the object in the detached state
employee.setAge(35);

//Re-associating the object with a Hibernate session
session.beginTransaction();
session.update(employee);
```

## 4. Removed State

When an object is deleted from the database, it enters the removed state. This means that the object is no longer associated with the database, and any attempts to modify it or re-associate it with a Hibernate session will result in an exception.

###### Code Example

```
// Loading an existing object into a Hibernate session
Session session = HibernateUtil.getSessionFactory().openSession();  
Employee employee = session.get(Employee.class, 1L);  
  
// Deleting the object from the database and entering the Removed state  
session.beginTransaction();  
session.delete(employee);
```