## Infinite Recursion Stack overflow Problem in Spring Boot @OnetoMany association

To prevent this infinite recursion stack overflow problem, we can use `@JsonManagedReference` and `@JsonBackReference` annotations.

With the use of these two annotations we can stop this loop. These two annotations are provided by the Jackson library and It can manage this situation properly.

```Java ln:false
@OneToMany(mappedBy = "user", cascade = CascadeType.ALL)  
@JsonManagedReference  
private List<Address> addresses;
```

```Java ln:false
@ManyToOne  
@JoinColumn(name = "user_id")  
@JsonBackReference  
private User user;
```

In here, you should add the `@JsonBackReference` annotation to the `@ManyToOne` relationship mapping. So after adding those two annotations to the entities, now you can run your application and check.

> [!NOTE]
> While this prevents infinite recursion in JSON responses, it can break the functionality of bidirectional relationships because JPA might not persist both sides of the relationship properly.

Solution could be DTO mapping...! 

---

Check for inconsistencies between the table structure and your entity mappings and throws an exception during application start-up.  

`spring.jpa.hibernate.ddl-auto=validate`
	With `generate-ddl` set to `false`, this property ensures that Hibernate **validates** your JPA entity mappings against the existing database schema. This validation helps identify any inconsistencies between your entities and the actual tables in the database and throws exception accordingly.

`spring.jpa.generate-ddl=false`
	This property instructs Spring JPA to **not** automatically generate the database schema based on your JPA entity mappings. This means the tables and columns representing your entities won't be created or altered by Hibernate.